Doc: for WebSocketFrame (#953)
zio/zio-http: docs/website/docs/v1.x/dsl/socket/websocketframe.md

---
title: "WebSocketFrame"
sidebar_label: "WebSocketFrame"
---

> In the [WebSocket](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455) protocol, communication happens using frames. ZIO
> HTTP's [WebSocketFrame](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http/blob/main/zio-http/src/main/scala/zhttp/socket/WebSocketFrame.scala)
> is its representation of those frames. The domain defines the following types of frames:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [WebSocket](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455) protocol, communication happens using frames. ZIO
HTTP's [WebSocketFrame](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http/blob/main/zio-http/src/main/scala/zhttp/socket/WebSocketFrame.scala)
is the representation of those frames. The domain defines the following type of frames:
```

Author: This is done. Thanks, @amitksingh1490.

> is its representation of those frames. The protocol defines the following types of frames:

Reviewer: check grammar 
```suggestion
is representation of those frames. The Domain defines the following types of frames:
```

Author: @amitksingh1490 The grammar for the sentence seems correct. However, using `domain` instead of `protocol` makes more sense.

---
title: "WebSocketFrame"
sidebar_label: "WebSocketFrame"
---
In the [WebSocket](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455) protocol, communication happens using frames. ZIO
HTTP's [WebSocketFrame](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http/blob/main/zio-http/src/main/scala/zhttp/socket/WebSocketFrame.scala)
is its representation of those frames. The protocol defines the following types of frames, which are generally divided

> into two categories - **Non-Control** and **Control** Frames:

Reviewer 2: I think that will be enough to specify: 

`The protocol defines the following types of frames: ` instead of
`The protocol defines the following types of frames, which are generally divided
into two categories - **Non-Control** and **Control** Frames:`

Author: Sure thing. Thanks for the review, @devsprint

```

## Control Frames

### Close

Close models a situation where the connection needs to be closed. To create a Close frame, you can use the `close`
constructor. The constructor needs two arguments: Status, and an optional reason.

#### Constructing Close with just status

```scala
val close = WebSocketFrame.close(1000)
```

#### Constructing Close with status and a reason

```scala
val close = WebSocket.close(1000, "Normal Closure")
```

More information on status codes can be found
in [Section 7.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455#section-7.4) of IETF's Data Tracker.

### Ping

Ping models heartbeat in the WebSocket protocol. The server or the client can at any time, after a successful handshake,
send a ping frame.

```scala
val ping = WebSocketFrame.ping
```

### Pong

Pong models the second half of the heartbeat in the WebSocket protocol. Upon receiving [ping](#ping), a pong needs to be
sent back.

```scala
val ping = WebSocketFrame.ping
```

## Pattern Matching on WebSocketFrame

ZIO HTTP envisions the WebSocketFrame as a [Sum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tagged_union) type, which allows

> exhaustive pattern matching to be performed on it, meaning that the compiler can leverage this knowledge to warn us if

Reviewer 3: I think we can remove  `meaning that the compiler can leverage this knowledge to warn us if
we write code that does not handle all the cases.`
as we are covering the term exhaustive pattern matching and this is related to scala, not websocket.

Author: This is done. Thanks, @ShrutiVerma97
